# practicum_clothing-classification-and-recommendation
Abstract—Clothing image classification and recommendation has been shown to be important in the fashion e-commerce industry. The application of fashion image analysis could be
widely used in supporting online customers in automatically choosing outfits on fashion e-commerce platforms such as H&M, Dunnes and Zara. A variety of previous efforts has been found in dealing with fashion classification and recommendation tasks. Most of them have merely focused on a single task in either classification or recommendation using pre-labelled training datasets. In this paper, we propose an approach to build an end-to-end predictive system, combining classification and recommendation models. Particularly, our system classifies a clothing image into its categories and attributes, then the extracted dataset is used for outfit compatibility learning and recommendation. In order to build the system, the Deepfashion and Polyvore datasets have been utilised to build classification and recommendation models. The classification models are trained using transfer learning in clothing image classification. A number of the state-of-the-art pre-trained models, namely VGG16, InceptionV3 and Resnet50 have been considered along with augmentation techniques for the image classification task, while Bayesian Personalized Ranking (BPR) - framework-based neural networks are employed for modelling the compatibility between clothes items. The results have shown the promising performance of models based on VGG16 in the classification tasks and the support in labelling clothing images automatically for compatibility learning. 
Index Terms—Fashion, classification, recommendation, transfer learning, BPR
